README.md, before:

## plot-in-blender
### What it is ?
This is a python library to analyse data, so far the following plots can be visualized in Blender. 
- BarPlot
- ScatterPlot (2D and 3D)
- HistPlot
- SurfacePlot


<p align="center"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hazilMohamed/data-visualization-using-blender/master/res/screenshots/3D-Plots.jpg"></p>

### Requirements
- Blender 2.82 or higher.
- Python 3.8x.

### Setup
- Clone the repo to your directory.
- Change the BLENDER_PATH to your blender executable.

### Import
Import the library to your project
```shell
import plotinblender as bl
```

### Usage
The plotinblender accepts both lists and numpy arrays as arguments
```python
import numpy as np
x = np.array(np.random.rand(500)*500)
y = np.array(np.random.rand(500)*500)
z = np.array(np.random.rand(500)*500)
```
To plot, use the following functions:
- BarPlot
```python
# The Material args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).

bl.barplot(x=x, y=y, grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1), bar_material = (1,0,0,1))
```
- ScatterPlot
```python
# The Material args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).
# Two arguments gives 2D plots while Three gives 3D plots.
# The cat is optional argument used for categorical plotting.

bl.scatterplot(x=x, y=y, cat=["Group 1","Group 2"], grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1))
bl.scatterplot(x=x, y=y, z=z, cat=["Group 1","Group 2"], grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1))
```
- HistPlot
```python
# The Material, Bins args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).
# The cat is optional argument used for categorical plotting.

bl.histplot(x=x, bins=35,cat=["Group 1","Group 2"], grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1))
```
- SurfacePlot
```python
# SurfacePlot requires 2D arrays of size m*n.
# The Material args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).

arr = np.arange(20).reshape(4,5)
bl.surfaceplot(z=arr, grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1), surface_material = (1,0,0,1))
```
### Contribute
If you have a new idea for plotting or find out a bug or something, please feel free to raise an issue or pull request.

### TODO
- ~~Materials for objects in Blender.~~
- ~~Categorical plots.~~
- Need to implement plots for negative values too.
- Planning to implement an FBX viewer for viewing plots.
- Creation of Wiki.
- Test files.
- Change to PEP 8 style.
- Working Demo GIF

Commit message:

using BLENDER_PATH from env variables

README.md, after:

## plot-in-blender
### What it is ?
This is a python library to analyse data, so far the following plots can be visualized in Blender. 
- BarPlot
- ScatterPlot (2D and 3D)
- HistPlot
- SurfacePlot


<p align="center"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hazilMohamed/data-visualization-using-blender/master/res/screenshots/3D-Plots.jpg"></p>

### Requirements
- Blender 2.82 or higher.
- Python 3.8x.

### Setup
- Clone the repo to your directory.
- Export BLENDER_PATH to environmnet variables by adding
  <code>export BLENDER_PATH="blender_exec_directory"</code> to <code>.bashrc</code>


### Import
Import the library to your project
```shell
import plotinblender as bl
```

### Usage
The plotinblender accepts both lists and numpy arrays as arguments
```python
import numpy as np
x = np.array(np.random.rand(500)*500)
y = np.array(np.random.rand(500)*500)
z = np.array(np.random.rand(500)*500)
```
To plot, use the following functions:
- BarPlot
```python
# The Material args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).

bl.barplot(x=x, y=y, grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1), bar_material = (1,0,0,1))
```
- ScatterPlot
```python
# The Material args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).
# Two arguments gives 2D plots while Three gives 3D plots.
# The cat is optional argument used for categorical plotting.

bl.scatterplot(x=x, y=y, cat=["Group 1","Group 2"], grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1))
bl.scatterplot(x=x, y=y, z=z, cat=["Group 1","Group 2"], grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1))
```
- HistPlot
```python
# The Material, Bins args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).
# The cat is optional argument used for categorical plotting.

bl.histplot(x=x, bins=35,cat=["Group 1","Group 2"], grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1))
```
- SurfacePlot
```python
# SurfacePlot requires 2D arrays of size m*n.
# The Material args are optional to use.
# The Material tuple is in the format (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha).

arr = np.arange(20).reshape(4,5)
bl.surfaceplot(z=arr, grid_material = (1,1,1,1), number_material = (1,1,1,1), surface_material = (1,0,0,1))
```
### Contribute
If you have a new idea for plotting or find out a bug or something, please feel free to raise an issue or pull request.

### TODO
- ~~Materials for objects in Blender.~~
- ~~Categorical plots.~~
- Need to implement plots for negative values too.
- Planning to implement an FBX viewer for viewing plots.
- Creation of Wiki.
- Test files.
- Change to PEP 8 style.
- Working Demo GIF
